Noel Moreno Lemus, Ph.D.
Data Science Professional | Ph.D. in Computational Modeling |
Researcher | Assistant Professor
Panama
Summary
Experienced Data Science Leader with a strong track record of
success across diverse industry domains including Life Sciences, Oil
& Gas, BioTech, Advertising, Retail, Energy, Logistics, eCommerce,
and IoT. Skilled in Mathematics, Probability, Statistics, Programming,
Machine Learning, and deep learning.
Portuguese (Professional Working)
English (Professional Working)
Spanish (Native or Bilingual)
Certifications
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2023 AI
Certified Foundations Associate
Art and Science of Machine Learning
Launch & Learn: BigQuery Game
Launching into Machine Learning
Google Cloud Big Data and Machine
Learning Fundamentals
Publications
SUQ 2: Uncertainty Quantification
Queries over Large Spatio-temporal
Simulations
Parallel Computation of PDFs on Big
Spatial Data Using Spark
Editor de ecuaciones para la
plataforma de simulación de
sistemas biológicos
Notably, I have leveraged my expertise in Bioinformatics, Drug
Design, and Clinical Trials to drive impactful outcomes in the Life
Sciences sector. Additionally, I possess a solid background in
software development, enhancing my ability to deliver data-driven
solutions.
With over 20 years of experience, I have honed my communication
skills and demonstrated a keen business acumen. Equally important,
I have successfully led and managed teams for more than 15 years.
As a passionate learner, I thrive on challenges and seek continuous
growth opportunities.
Experience
Procter & Gamble
4 years 4 months
Senior Data Scientist
BioSyS: software para la simulación
y análisis de sistemas dinámicosMay 2022 - Present (1 year 8 months)
Panama City, Panamá, Panama
Methodology for stability analysis in
N-Dimensional equations systemsResponsible for end-to-end analytic leadership of Data Science projects
Patentsbuilding advanced analytic (ML/AI/Optimization) algorithms within a Data
Methods and apparatus for
automatic identification of faults on
noisy seismic data
including algorithm performance and effectiveness. Also responsible for
Science program and working with Business Partners and Friends of Data
Science to insert algorithms into business processes and activate them directly
with the business.
Page 1 of 7Data Scientist
September 2019 - May 2022 (2 years 9 months)
Panama City, Panamá, Panama
Responsible for building advanced analytic (ML/AI/Optimization) algorithms
within a Data Science program and working with Business Partners and
Friends of Data Science to insert algorithms into business processes and
activate them directly with the business.
Universidade Federal Fluminense
Postdoctoral Researcher
August 2018 - May 2019 (10 months)
Rio de Janeiro Area, Brazil
Research Proposal: Computational modeling and simulation of epidemic
infectious diseases
- Conducted independent research and development to attain short and long-
term objectives.
- Wrote and published peer-reviewed articles concerning findings and
highlighted possible applications for findings.
- Contributed to and actively participated in research conception, design and
execution to address defined problems.
- Collaborated with multidisciplinary team members to accomplish the research
goals of the project.
- Leveraged interpersonal and communication skills to mentor Ph.D., graduate,
and undergraduate students.
Dell EMC
Scientific Researcher
February 2014 - August 2015 (1 year 7 months)
Rio de Janeiro Area, Brazil
Research Project: Visualization and Analysis for Seismic Interpretation
- Automatically identifying possible faults in large seismic datasets.
- An exemplary method comprises obtaining the seismic data; calculating
a coherence cube of the seismic data; performing the following steps for
a plurality of two-dimensional seismic sections of the coherence cube:
(i) applying a threshold to the coherence cube to obtain a binary image
representation comprising continuities; (ii) identifying edges of continuity areas
in the binary image representation to identify changes in the continuities as
fault point candidates; (iii) identifying fault points in the obtained seismic data
based on a fault confidence value indicating a likelihood that a given point is
Page 2 of 7part of a fault; (iv) creating one or more fault segments from the identified fault
points; and (v) joining fault segments into fault lines using geological and/or
geometrical constraints; and generating three-dimensional fault surfaces from
the fault lines in the plurality of two-dimensional seismic sections
- The exemplary automatic fault detection method can be parallelized.
Universidad Agraria de La Habana (UNAH)¨Fructuoso Rodríguez
Pérez¨
Assistant Professor
September 2011 - August 2012 (1 year)
San José de las Lajas, Mayabeque, Cuba
Disciplines:
- Linear Algebra
- Numerical Methods
Objectives:
- Used a variety of learning modalities and support materials to facilitate the
learning process and accentuate presentations.
- Collaborated with colleagues on curriculum revision, evaluation of course
syllabi and lesson plans for Linear Algebra and Numerical Methods curriculum.
- Helped struggling students by providing support outside of classrooms and
consistently checking in on progress.
- Mentored students and communicated internship and employment
opportunities.
- Contributed to campus activities to promote a positive university image.
Universidad de las Ciencias Informáticas
8 years
Head of the Bioinformatic R&D Group
September 2004 - August 2010 (6 years)
Havana, Cuba
As a Head of the Bioinformatics Research Group, I organized the work of
more than 30 professionals from different areas as Biochemistry, Biology,
Mathematics, Computer Science, and Information Technologies; and 200+
students between 3er and 5th of the Information Science Engineers course.
The work was organized into 9 Research & Developed projects that tried to
solve problems for the Research Centers of the Scientific Pole of the West of
Havana, Cuba. Some of the main projects were:
- BioSyS: Biologic System Simulator
Page 3 of 7- J-IMMSIM: Immune System Simulator
- Grato: Computer-Aided Drug Design Framework
- LIMS: Laboratory Information Management System for the CIGB, Cuba.
- T-arenal: Platform of Distributed Tasks
- BioNova: Bioinformatic Linux Distribution
- Farmaco-kinetic web App
Additionally I organizes:
- Scientific seminars and conferences
- Advanced and postgraduate courses
- Coordinate the program of Master in Bioinformatics, which took place in two
editions 2005-2007 and 2008-2010.
- Guarantee the quality of the complete flow of software development, from
the definition of the requirements to the quality tests of the software, its
implementation, and its future maintenance and improvement.
Main results:
- The Bioinformatics Research Group was the best research group of the
University in 2007, 2008 and 2009
- The Software BioSyS and T-arenal were registered in the Cuban Office of
Intellectual Property
- The algorithms and software developed by the group were used by the
Research Centers of the Scientific Pole of the West of Havana to conduct its
investigations.
Academic Advisor
September 2004 - August 2010 (6 years)
Master Degree Dissertations:
1. Yudelkis Abad: "Software para la estimacion de parametros y analisis de
sensibilidad en SED". 2010
2. Yunet Gonzalez Mulet. "Metodología para el análisis de estabilidad de
Sistema de Ecuaciones Diferenciales n-dimensionales". 2010
Engineering Degree:
1. Indira Rodriguez: "Implementacion del GROMACS en ambiente distribuido.
2011.
Page 4 of 72. Katia Manchon: BioG : desarrollo de un módulo de simulación de sistemas
dinámicos. 2009.
3. Yanet Fajardo. BioSyS : análisis de series temporales mediante técnicas de
clustering. 2009.
4. Jorge Diaz. BioSyS: adición de nuevos métodos de simulación y utilización
e integración del asistente matemático Octave, 2009
5. Yilian Rodriguez. BioSyS: Implementación del Módulo de Análisis.. 2008.
6. Adriel Acosta. Simulador del Sistema Inmune J-ImmSim, 2008
7. Alfredo Martinez. BioSyS: Módulo de Modelación Gráfica de Sistemas
Biológicos, 2008
8. Mabel Navarro. BioSyS: Implementación del Módulo de Simulación. 2008
9. Niurka Martinez Duran. Portal Web de Servicios Bioinformáticos, 2008
10. Roberto Maldonado. Estimación de Parámetros en SED, 2008
11. Diana del Fresno. Aplicación Web para Estudios Farmacocinéticos, 2007
12. Yeniley Matos. Simulador para el Sistema Inmune. 2007
13. Mabelis Padron. Distribución de Linux específica para Bioinformática. 2007
14. Yunet Gonzalez. Módulo de Simulación y Análisis para BioSyS, 2007
15. Ileana Centelles. Editor de Ecuaciones Diferenciales para BioSyS, 2007
16. Anthony Sotolongo. Herramienta para la Modelación de Sistemas
Biológicos. 2006
17. Celia Garcés. Sistema automatizado para el control de la calidad en el
laboratorio clínico. 2005
18. Yaima Fiallo. Sistema Automatizado para el Registro Cubano de
Discapacitados. 2005
19. Danay Rodriguez. Sistema para el Registro Cubano de Malformaciones
Congénitas. 2005
20. Karel Osorio. Plataforma para el Desarrollo de la Biología de Sistemas,
2004
Project Manager: BioSyS (Biological System Simulator)
September 2003 - August 2010 (7 years)
Havana, Cuba
- Developed and initiated projects, managed costs, and monitored
performance.
- Adhered to industry practices, company standards, and safety protocols in
work.
- Completed assignments ahead of the deadline.
- Assisted in level-loading project capacity and made proactive decisions
around process improvements to the development cycle.
Page 5 of 7- Modeled management and organizational skills and multi-tasked and
prioritized in a deadline-driven environment.
- Developed project timelines for product lines from kickoff through production
and online content development based on marketplace requirements.
- Verified quality of deliverables and conformance to specifications before
submitting to clients.
- Tracked project and team member performance closely to quickly intervene
in mistakes or delays.
- Recruited and oversaw personnel to achieve performance and quality
targets.
- Built successful project plans covering objectives, resources, and staffing to
meet schedules.
- Scheduled and facilitated meetings between project stakeholders to discuss
deliverables, schedules and conflicts.
Assistant Professor
September 2002 - January 2010 (7 years 5 months)
Havana, Cuba
Disciplines:
- Linear Algebra
- Discrete Mathematics
- Mathematical Models in Biology
- Introduction to Bioinformatics
- Probabilities and Statistics
- Numerical Methods
- GNU/Linux
Objectives:
- Used a variety of learning modalities and support materials to facilitate the
learning process and accentuate presentations.
- Took attendance, graded assignments, and maintained student records to
assist teachers with administrative tasks and maintain smooth daily operations.
- Collaborated with colleagues on curriculum revision, evaluation of course
syllabi, and lesson plans.
- Helped struggling students by providing support outside of classrooms and
consistently checking in on progress.
- Proctored exams and provided remediation for learning improvement goals.
- Created materials and exercises to illustrate the application of course
concepts.
Page 6 of 7- Facilitated academic and community collaborations to increase the number of
community-engaged research proposal submissions to extramural funders.
- Mentored students and communicated internship and employment
opportunities.
- Contributed to campus activities to promote a positive university image.
- Evaluated and supervised student activities and performance levels to
provide reports on academic progress.
- Applied innovative teaching methods to encourage student learning
objectives.
Education
National Laboratory of Scientific Computing
Doctor of Philosophy - PhD, Computational Modeling · (2013 - 2018)
Institute of Technologies And Applied Sciences (InsTEC)
Master's degree, Bioinformatics · (2005 - 2007)
Institute of Nuclear Sciences And Technology (ISCTN)
Bachelor's degree, Radiochemistry · (1997 - 2002)
